---
layout: post
title: Week 4 - Browser Extension Activity
---

This week, each group presented their own Firefox extension.

<!--more-->

# Group work

This project was a great opportunity to increase my ability in teamwork. There were not much opportunity to do group projects in
other computer science courses, so it was such a fun time. All my teammates were wonderful; they were eager to contribute
to the project and discuss any hardships and opinions. Also I found myself quite good at making schedule for the group; I was
always happy to talk first about when to meet and more. I guess I found one more skill in myself!

I loved each meeting. We had not only professional but also personal conversations and it was a really good time to get close to
people in my major. As someone who knows almost nobody in my major, it was a very fun time to get to know my teammates! We
talked about which person should work on which part, and which feature should be added to make the extension more attractive. This project
gave me an insight about how group projects in real world would look like.

# My contribution to the team

I created and wrote README.md and CONTRIBUTING.md file. Mariah and I worked on the js file. Yet Mariah majorly wrote
the codes because I never learned about Javascript and she was familiar with the language because she used it for work.
I found the image for the extension. Lastly, I edited thmanifest.json file, specifically the icon and name line. 

# Things I learned

I definitely learned more about Javascript; Mariah gave me good explanations through the codes, such as their functionality
and syntax. I thought Javascript would look very much like Java, but it definitely wasn't. Also I learned more about myself;
as I mentioned above, I'm really good at scheduling and leading the group. I am really good at fostering the conversation
and easing the team atmosphere. 

# Other teams' projects

Other teams' projects were amazing. I loved each project. They were all very creative and impressive. My favorite project
was Less Ugly Brightspace; it was very useful and indeed visually better than the original one. I'm actually considering
using the extension in the future. Also colorMeValentined extension was amazing, it made my lonely Valentine more eventful.
It was pleasing and fun to see all these projects. Such a fun time!
