---
layout: post
title: Week 10 - Keep working on the project
---

This week, the class took the midterm exam on Tuesday and the professor gave us time to work on our project on Thursday.

<!--more-->

# Group project - Oppia

This week our group mainly focused on the preparation before making contributions. By preparation, I mean downloading Oppia and learning what kind of major and/or common
contributions are done on this project. However, it was quite difficult to successfully download Oppia for Neev and I because our laptops weren't in versions that Oppia 
requires, and we ended up not being able to download Oppia. My laptop specifically didn't support Remote Desktop, which is one of the crucial part of downloading Oppia. So
only Blake was able to download Oppia successfully. 

I was worried of the consequences of this. I was quite anxious, thinking "is this going to work?", "what should I do now?", "should I focus on non-coding contributions?", 
and more. The group actually once discussed if we should work on another project because of this difficulty. But we ended up keeping Oppia; Oppia has a lot of contribution
opportunities available for us, and we can still work as a team for coding-related contributions using Blake's Mac. We have no idea what kind of challenges or hardships we
will experience in the future, but I believe we will figure them out just like how we figured out this problem out. Neev and I will focus more on the non-coding math lessons while
Blake can work on the part that he's already been assigned to. I will also be reporting the issue I've had on the process of downloading, so that any beginners in the future
can download Oppia more easily. 

I will need more time to look in depth about what kind of non-coding contributions I can make, and I'm certainly excited to have a new adventure.
