---
layout: post
title: Week 6 - Second guest speaker _ Christopher Snider
---

This week, we had our second guest speaker Christopher Snider, and we discussed open source projects from last week's videos.

<!--more-->

# Christopher Snider presentation

On Tuesday, the class had an opportunity to talk to Christopher Sinder. Christopher is currently an engineer who represents
Tidepool, an open source non-profit project that supports researches in diabetes and provides a software to the diabetes community. It was
wonderful to see an example of how open source can help everybody in the world. Now with Tidepool, patients with diabetes will
feel less lonely and more supported. Tidepool provides information such as events for diabetes patients and newly found
results about diabetes. I believe such open source projects/services are one of the most important advantages of open source; thousands of
people from different parts of the world can share their thoughts and ideas to build one strong application for others in the world to use. And
this is why I didn't give up on becoming a software engineer even though it was extremely tough for the last 2 years learning Computer Science. Furthermore,
I respect Christopher for dedicating himself to helping the diabetes community; as it's a common disease for people today, it's
absolutely better when there's a medium that people with the same disease could use to connect with each other. I'm definitely excited to learn 
more about this project, and maybe one day I will become a contributor for Tidepool!

# Open efforts

On Thursday, the class discussed the open source projects we've watched last week. All of them were amazing because they had a common goal: to make 
a better world. I personally feel that people are getting less closer and closer as technology develops; a lot of us look at our phones longer than
talking to others, and it's hard to find the early-2000s atmosphere (where face-to-face conversation was common) today. However, technology
development brought one big perk: more information available for people, easier to "talk" to others regardless of their location, and more. Open Source,
therefore, is one of the best results the development of technology has made. Now people don't need to sit in the same room to make a better world; they
can simply turn on their computers, find and implement new ideas, and put them into real world for people, especially minorities. Although open source
have some problems such as privacy invasion, I believe all of these problems will be solved one day. I'm excited to see how bigger Computer Science and open source
will be in near future. 
