---
layout: post
title: Week 5 - Project Evaluation Activity 
---

This week, we had a chance to evaluate open source projects outside of class. Then we watched a few videos about open source project stories.

<!--more-->

# Project Evaluation Activity

It was fun to evaluate projects outside of class. I've actually heard of some of these projects before. It's amazing how my viewpoint on these projects have changed after learning
about Open Source. Now I know what some of these files are for, such as Code of Conduct, Contributing, etc. The activity especially helped me a lot with navigating myself to specific
places, such as issues and pull requests, and helped me learn how to read and sometimes understand what is happening. I love how Github can be used for generally everything, from
a forum (like posting in issues and pull requests) to a blog (commits, because they basically can record everything we did on the project). What surprised me the most during the
activity was looking at the number of commits the most-active maintainers made. One of the major maintainers had done over 2,500 commits! There was also something unexpected during
the project (a bad one), which was that I couldn't understand most of what the maintainers were talking about. Before this activity I thought that although I'm a beginner, I will
be able to at least understand what the contributors are talking about. But the reality was quite opposite; all these new terms made me feel dizzy. Also what I love is, after
learning about OpenEMR, that the medical field will grow rapidly with all these open source contributions and one day we will be able to cure diseases that we currently can't. It's always heartbreaking to see some people
suffering from illness and I would be so happy to see the day when (mostly) everyone is healthy and protected.

# Open Source story videos

First, I watched "Food Computer".

Before watching the video, I thought they said Food Computer as a metaphor, but it's actually a
greenhouse-inspired tabletop that's ran by computer programming and robotics. The engineers also
use many tools like a fan, a temperature sensor and a grow light to provide optimal environment
for plants. This video shocked me; it's like a science fiction movie coming true. It's crazy how
a computer is so developed that now it can grow plants. I'm definitely excited to learn more about
this open source project and contribute.

Then I watched "Cracking the Textbook".

The video was to help students in low income families who are having hard time paying for tuition and other fees, more specifically textbooks.
There are many students who aren't able to get higher education due to economic reasons, and a solution was needed to find any way
to provide financial help to those students. Then OpenStax, based at Rice University, was created to improve
learning for everyone. Not only the project helps students to have more focus on their learning, but also the project
gives financial support to students with financial hardships. Now the project members are developing a way to merge the textbook with multimedia such as
videos and simulations. I definitely agree that such interactions in education help students a lot with learning. 
Now with this open source projects, many students were able to receive free textbooks and even a scholarship. I absolutely
love their goal: to provide free education for gen eds for college students. General education is definitely essential for one
but it's sometimes overwhelming to pay for gen ed courses for students with financial hardships. As they mentioned,
education is a "fundamental human right" and everyone deserves it. 
