---
layout: post
title: Week 7 - Lessons for open source contributors - what are my goals?
---

This week, the class discussed the lessons in "The Cathedral and the Bazaar" and the role of open source in global affairs, and each of us had an opportunity to 
select the project that we wish to contribute to.

<!--more-->

# The lessons

The lessons in "The Cathedral and the Bazaar" were really an eye-opener for me, a beginner in open source contributions. I
am very grateful that the senior open source contributors are giving us lessons based on their mistakes in the early days
so that we won't make the same mistakes. 

I think the lesson "If you have the right attitude, interesting problems will find you" is philosophically a very important lesson
that we should really listen to. This lesson isn't only applied to open source, but also applied to mostly everything in this world.
We should be open to what we are facing. Just looking at something won't magically give us a better innovation; we should be able to
see every aspect of anything so that we can find problems/issues that we couldn't think of before.

The lesson "Smart data structures and dumb code works a lot  better than the other way around" hit me hard. When I code, I mostly use very basic
data structures like dictionaries or arrays, and this won't help me at all in my future programming career. I really should learn
which data structures to use for which problems. I'm really bad at making such decisions...

What I felt a lot from these lessons is that it's essential for the contributors to have a strong responsibility on their work. When the
contributors don't think they will be able to handle the project, they should hand it to somebody who can. We are responsible for
the security of our proejct for the sake of the users/customers and oursevles. It's our responsibility to listen to who uses our project and
really dedicate ourselves to continuously develop and improve our projects. I think responsibility is one of the key values that
the senior open source contributors valued the most.

It was interesting to have a discussion about these lessons, and I would love to have more!

# Open Source in global affairs

It's certainly phenomenal to see how Open Source can benefit people in extreme situations. Although it could have some
limits (especially countries that limit user freedom in internet access), it's something to be proud of that the human race has
developed something that can do almost anything that now it helps people suffering from attack. I would love to learn more about
what open source can do in global level. 
 
# Selecting projects to contribute to

I selected Renovate and HospitalRun as the open source projects that I am interested to contribute to. 

Renovate automates dependency updates in software projects to save developers' time and reduce security risk. I picked this
project just for pure interest, although this project can also be considered humanitarian. The project is actually huge in size; a lot
of companies and projects use Renovate to save time and improve security. I picked this project because I was so curious about what
dependency updates does that it saves time and improves security, which are the two most important values for the software engineers. My
ultimate goal for contributing to this project is to learn more about how to improve efficiency and safety of a software, and to see
what I, a junior software engineer, could do to make a project/software better than before.

HospitalRun stores electronic health records and hospital information and provides them to clinics/hospitals in the most
rural areas so that they are not isolated from the major hospital information system. As somebody who once worked at a medical
clinic, this humanitarian project was fascinating and familiar to me. However, I think the contributors don't do 
any more code work for HospitalRun; they probably implemented and fixed most of the features they could possibly think of. Yet
if there is anything I could do, I would love to contribute to HospitalRun.

Other than these two, I'm also interested to contribute to Musescore and Audacity, because I love music and I would love to
learn more about open source projects related to music.

I'm excited to actually contribute to the open source projects outside of the class!
