---
layout: post
title: Week 13 - Progress reports
---

This week, each group in class presented their progress report about the open source project they're contributing to.

<!--more-->

# Progress reports

It was amazing to see how our class, which has roughly 30 students, is making a huge influence
to many open source projects over the world. It was also a great opportunity to know more about
additional open source projects that I haven't heard of. I actually found Blender very interesting, so I
took a look at their project after the class. I might make some contributions for Blender in the near future.
Also it's cool how us, undergraduate students, can do something for big public organizations (like how group 1 is making
contributions to CAGOV) with Open Source as a medium. Also, there are three groups contributing to Oppia, and
I loved how each group was focusing on different fields. Our group is focusing on lint errors and non-coding
contributions like math lessons and translation, and other groups are working on other coding contributions on
front-end and run issues. It's definitely a precious experience to learn about what's out there in real world and make a difference. 


# Oppia

This week, I finished implementing the three geometry math lessons, and I'm just waiting for the art team to send me the images for the lessons so I can insert them
and publish the lessons. I also updated the pull request for two handlers I've been working on, and I'm waiting for the comments on the schemas. Meanwhile, Blake has 
almost finished lint issues, and Neev also finished the first pass on the storyline, and he will be discussing with Sean in the meeting. It's great that now we have a 
good sense of what our responsibilites are and what we're supposed to do. Our goal is to make as many contributions as possible as a beginning contributor. 

Also, I got assigned to 7 new lessons (addition and subtraction). My job is to edit/fix any errors, make any suggestions, and implement the lessons and publish them. This time
I'm working on Rita, a former teacher from Brazil. Sean, Rita and I had a meeting on Thursday, and Sean gave me a thorough explanation of my responsibility later that day. I'm quite
excited to see how these new lessons are going to work out in near future.
