---
layout: post
title: Week 9 - Starting on the group project and the third guest speaker Tom Callaway
---

This week, we had an opportunity to form project groups and finalize our decisions on which project to contribute to. On Thursday,
we had our third guest speaker Tom Callaway.

<!--more-->

# Group project - Oppia

My groupmates (Blake and Neev) and I had a common interest in a project called Oppia, which is an
online learning tool for under-resourced learners. We liked this project because it had a very detailed instructions
for beginning contributors, and the structure of the project was clear and easy to understand. The project describes examples of different
types of contributions for contributors with different skill sets, so that was also nice. Furthermore, I personally
wanted to contribute to a humanitarian project to help people all over the world. I was quite excited to see what I could accomplish
as a college undergraduate student. However, all of us had a hard time downloading Oppia; there was a lot of external sources to download
along with Oppia itself, and I couldn't download some of them at all because of my computer system properties. So I don't know if 
we will actually go with Oppia; we might change to another project that has simple requirements. Nonetheless, I am excited!

# Third guest speaker - Tom Callaway

On Thursday, we had Tom Callaway to talk about open source and its elements. He told us most of the industries have at least
a little bit amount of open source in them, which is amazing to hear. I love how he moved to Amazon from his old company which he
worked for more than 10 years, so that he could make a positive impact on open source. Guest speaker invitation is one of the major
reasons why I like this class; we have an opportunity to have a real conversation with somebody who's been working in the field for
decades. I strongly agree with Tom; even though making something open source sounds like it will lose some profit, it actually will
bring more profits with more improvements and developments in the project. I was quite shocked with the fact that a lot of fields have
almost 90% to 95% open source. It was a real eye opener for me to realize that open source is now affecting almost every software existing.

After talking to Callaway, I had some time to think about the pros and cons of open source. Because everyone can work on it, sometimes the results
can be worse than what the code originally looked like. In some cases, as Tom mentioned, the contributors don't realize that the original code
is supposed to work the way it's working and they "fix" it in their way. Like this, open source doesn't always have happy, perfect 
days. There will be always troubles and problems. But I still think open source is one of the most beautiful inventions ever made
since the day of the creation of the internet.
