---
layout: post
title: Week 12 - Industries and open source
---

This week, the class learned about the relationship between industries and open source, and we continued working on our group projects.

<!--more-->

# Industries and open source

Industries found open source as the key of solving everyone's problem in a faster rate. Since everyone can join, tons of work can be done quickly and the industries found that advantage very powerful. Now many industries (including proprietary companies) use open source in various ways, such as library formats for certain types of pipelines and more. Also, another power of open source the developer mentions is about non-coding contributions (or as they called, "digital interaction"). The users can try the new feature and give feedback to the developers, which actually can help them get ahead of the problem. Furthermore, the communities/studios (for example, film industries, in the video) can work together to generate color schemes, timelines and scene descriptions more easily and quickly. There's a
lot of advantages when the teams in an industry work together. And I definitely understand why they say this, because the goal of software development is to maximize the user's satisfaction, and we can't know that unless we have somebody to actually try and use the software. As somebody who's waiting for making non-coding contributions to Oppia, I'm quite excited to hear all this. 

But there are stil many questions for industries to consider when they want to use open source, such as:
"what should be open and what should be closed?", "how shoudld they treat their customers, especially when the customers contribute to the industry?", "what is the business benefit of doing this?", and more. Beyond all these questions, the ultimate reasoning of whether to use open source is whether it's good or bad for the business. And although it could be time and effort consuming work to see how open source
works with the industry, it is a great opportunity; if they could find a perfect fit about how to implement open source into their products and projects, it will bring them a tremendous amount of benefits.

# Oppia

This week, Neev had to leave for a conference in California, so Blake and I focused on the project.

It was a rough week. I finished a rough draft of schemas for Suggestion Email Handler and Instant Feedback Message Email Handler. It took me a long time to understand
how to write schemas; I had to read a lot of examples to create one by myself. After finishing them, we used Blake's macbook
to make a pull request to the repository. Creating PR was another long, difficult journey. After adding the schemas into the file, when
Blake ran the program, we had a lot of errors. We took 1 hour to try to solve the problem, but none of the solutions worked. We kept quesetioning:
"we just simply added schema to the code and changed nothing else, there must not be any errors". Then we realized all of the errors were
linting issues; the rules with structure (spaces, tabs, etc) of the writing is strict with Oppia, and not following them
leads to a run error. So we fixed the errors easily after realizing what's wrong. We're now waiting for the feedback
on our schmas from the main contributors.

After making the PR, Blake and I started looking for more other issues to work on. We found two issues and commented on them
for an assignment. The main contributor for the first issue is apparently inactive, but Blake got instantly assigned to the second 
issue right after he commented. We worked on the second issue together, and the problem was Blake's VSCode had an
auto-indent-when-saving option. We took the whole class time to figure out how to turn it off. It was extremely simple, but
we couldn't find the button for a long time. But anyways, we solved the problem and once Blake fixes the errors he will create a PR.

I had a meeting with Sean (main contributor) about non-coding contributions. Sean gave me an explanation of each group/responsibility in math lesson team, and asked me
which group I wish to join. Sean invited me to the weekly Math Lesson Team meeting on Tuesdays, so I'll join the first meeting on the 19th. While waiting, I'll keep working
on the coding contributions with Blake.


