---
layout: post
title: Week 14 - Guest Speaker and Final Project Presentation
---

This week, we had a guest speaker Riju Khatri, and on Thursday three groups presented their contributions on open source projects.

<!--more-->

# Riju Khatri

It was great to see somebody who's also going to NYU and have experience in open source projects. It's like seeing a future version of us if we continue
contributing to open source projects. Riju briefly went through her past experience with open source projects and the benefits, hardships, and lessons from
that experience. It was great to hear from somebody who is in similar situation as us; I felt more connection and familiar.


# Final Presentation - Day 1

It was fun to see how other groups worked with different open source projects in various fields. On Thursday, (1) Open Library, (2) CAGOV and (3) Oppia group 8
presented. I loved every presentation, and all of them did a really good job with presenting crucial information (their contributions, what they liked, what was
difficult, etc). As a member of another Oppia group, I completely agreed with Group 8's opinion on Oppia. The Wiki pages needs a good amount of update and some
pages have exact same information but just in different wording. Some issues are hard to get assigned because we couldn't contact the contributor/issuer. But
there is a lot of issues that we can work on, so I would still choose Oppia for contributions. 

I felt that when Open Library group said they're emotionally connected to the project team and it's hard to disconnect it after the semester. I've been in
close contact with Sean and I think we formed a connection as a team. It will be difficult to forget that connection when I stop working for Oppia. However,
I plan to keep contributing to Oppia (but only non-coding, math lesson creation) until August, so that's good. 

I think the CAGOV group did a really good job with the presentation powerpoint design. The background layout is simple and clean, the yellow color makes it
easier and comfortable to read the slides, and each slide had appropriate amount of information. I liked it! It's cool how we can contribute to government-related
projects as an undergraduate student.

# Oppia - this week's progress

This Week, I continued working on the seven additional lessons (Place Values & Addition and Subtraction) I received from Sean. My job is to edit the requested suggestions from Rita (a former teacher)
and implement them on the Oppia website. It's a lot of work, so I'm doing them bit by bit so I won't be overwhelemed at the end. I'm also waiting for
the images from art team to finish implementing the three geometry lessons. Blake is continuously
working on the code-related issues, specifically stale build issue and lint issues. Neev finished his first draft on creating a storyline. He created a story
of a lemonade stand, and I think he did a really good job with the continuity and connectivity of each part in the story. 

We continue working on our own part and are excited to present them on May 5th!

