
---
layout: post
title: Week 11 - Business Models
---

This week, the class learned about business models around open source and continued working on the group projects.

<!--more-->

# Business Models

On Tuesday, the class had a discussion about how how business models around open source are established and managed. We know that it's quite difficult to earn profits
from open source projects due to its free and open characteristics, but if the project finds a proper business model, profitizing is more than possible. 
Being able to make profits from open source project will help the developers to spend more time and dedicate to
the project. And in turn, the developers will try harder to make a better version of the project. So if profitizing
is possible for open source projects, there can be an infinite loop that benefits both the developers and the open source
community, as Danny Windham says "open source triggers innovation, wide-scale efficiencies, and helps
speed time to market".

There are many ways to make profits from an open source project, such as receiving a sponsorship from
government or big companies, receiving donations from users, or having some features not free so that
when the user wants to use an advance feature then they can pay some money. I believe all of these models are
excellent, and they all have their own advantages and disadvantages. For example, receiving donations would be
a great way to create profits but it might be a little hard to collect enough money. Government sponsorship is also an
excellent business model but it's difficult and requires a lot to innovate an open source project to a level where
government wants to sponsor it. Advance feature model is a very practical way to create profits, but when I heard this
model I thought: "is this still an open project?". Should an open source project be 100% open in terms of code? Or should it be fine
if it only discloses 90% of its code? It's a very complex question to answer, but one thing I'm sure is advance features gives
a good motivation to the developers to improve their project's efficiency and functionality. So developers should try
many of these business models so they can hopefully find a perfect fit for their project.

As open source softwares/projects are growing in a very fast rate, there should be more public discussions and
supports to profit creation from open source.

# Oppia

This week, Neev talked to Sean, the main contributor of Oppia, about the non-coding contributions, and he will be
assigned to one of the math lesson team in the near future. Blake got assigned to writing schemas for
two handlers, Suggestion Email Handler and Instant Feedback Message Email Handler. I will be working on both the math 
lessons and the handlers, since I didn't get any email from the Oppia team yet. Blake reported an issue about 
running coverage tests, and I will also be reporting an issue about downloading process of Oppia. One interesting and also
quite unexpected thing is that the assignment of writing schemas was considered a "good first issue" that the beginning
contributors can do, but it was quite difficult to understand how to write them. There's still a long way to go,
but we're ready to learn!
