---
layout: post
title: Week 3 - Git Activity and discussion with Jim Hall
---

This week, the class had an opportunity to learn more about Version Control Systems (i.e. Git) and we had our first guest speaker Jim Hall.

<!--more-->

# Introduction to Version Control System

Before this week's lecture, all I simply knew was that Github is a great place to save my software projects. 
But Github and VCS were actually way more sophisticated than my knowledge; the contributors can copy/clone the project to their local
repository and try new features/ideas and commit to update successful ideas to the original project. 
Until the lecture I didn't know what pull and push were, and I wasn't able to use them. In this activity, I was able to actually use 
these to put my "work" into the repository and update an original project. It was such a great opportunity to learn more about
such terms because I will use these a lot when I get a job. Most (if not all) software engineers use VCS (Github) and I was very worried
about not being able to use or understand Github. I'm grateful for learning about this!

# First guest speaker : Jim Hall

In the second lecture of the week, we had a chance to discuss Open Source with Jim Hall on Zoom. Jim had decades of experience in computer science
and open source field, and it was absolutely fascinating to see the history of software development. In 1990s, the computer was very big 
and the operating system was way more simple than right now. Jim told us about how he has memories of looking at the very first version of Linux
and that made me more realize that I'm watching someone who saw and learned the very first version of computers, which is amazing!

The tips he gave us when starting Open Source project were absolutely helpful. First, we should make a website, small or big, that describes
the purpose and function of my project. Secondly, I have to make the source code public. Thirdly, I should make it easy for people to contribute.
Lastly, use social media actively when promoting my project. Having an Open Source "mentor" was a great opportunity to actually plan out the goals/accomplishments and methods to reach them.

It was a great time to talk to somebody who has been in open source community for more than 20 years; Jim gave me an insight that the
most important part of Open Source projects is the interaction between people and successful teamwork is what makes Open Source more 
attractive and meaningful. Now I'm even more excited to do more Open Source projects with other people all over the world.

