---
layout: post
title: Week 2 - Code of Conduct and Add-on Activity
---

This week, the class went over Code of Conduct in details, and we had an opportunity to create our first in-class Open Source project, so called "Broswer Add-on Activity".

# Introduction to Code of Conduct

Although I have variety of experience in team projects and work experience (mostly in customer service), I rarely heard or read about the actual details of Code of Conduct. After reading a few code of conduct documents from different companies, I now get a sense of what code of conduct should be explaining, and one thing I realized is that I'm familiar with the majority of general code of conduct. When I worked as a Cashier of a restaurant or a leader of a community choir or an employee at a doctor's office, I always valued patience, thoughtfulness, kindness, responsibility and more. Yet it's excellent to see it in a formal document where it explains not only the company's values but also beyond the values, such as company's conflict resolution strategy and its vision, and more.

# Benefits of having Code of Conduct

I believe having the Code of Conduct document for a project would be a great benefit to the company. The document, as I expressed above, is a perfect compilation of company's values and vision, which would be a great source for new contributor/teammate for the company. Furthermore, I believe it's beneficial to every member of the company because this document officially supports ethics and protection of the members. The members will feel protected and safe when they have such document in official terms. Finally, I believe it gives a set of rules to the company, which will help building structure of the company. 

I believe all other projects should have a code of conduct document for themselves, and I will highly recommend to make one.

# comparison of different code of conduct documents

### Go Project VS Contributor Covenant

I noticed that the Go Project's Code of Conduct is "adapted from the Contributor Covenant". Comparing the Go Project's and the Contributor Covenant's Code of Conduct document, I found some differences. The major difference is that the Go Project (relatively newer than thee Contributor Covenant Code of Conduct document) had (1) an introduction paragraph where they explain the outline of the document and (2) the values they want their teammates to aspire. I believe they made a great change because having an introduction to a document helps people understand a lot better. That is why every essay and every article has an introduction: to make it easier and more interesting to read. Also I love how they made a bullet point list of the values and made a very detailed explanation of each value as much as possible. It really makes the reader (whom is a new member of the company) feel like the company cares a lot about peaceful teamwork.

Also another major difference between Go Project and Contributor Covenant is that when it comes to conflicts, Go Project gives the contributors an opportunity to solve the conflicts by themselves; they belive a direct discussion can quickly solve the team conflicts, which I agree. Many problems can be solved by just a genuine discussion, and it should be done often when in team.

### Go Project VS Eclipse

Here is the link to Eclipse's Code of Conduct document : https://www.eclipse.org/org/documents/Community_Code_of_Conduct.php

I found that Eclipse decided to keep the "Enforcement" section of the document from the Contributor Covenant document, whereas the Go Project decided to rename it as "conflict resolution" and has quite more discussion about conflicts than Eclipse. As I mentioned above, the Go Project seems more to be eager to let the teammates/contributors to solve team conflicts by themselves.

Also another difference I noticed in terms of the content is that while the Go Project calls their contributors simply "project maintainers", Eclipse gives a detailed terminology of each different contributor, such as "project committers" and "project leaders" and "the "Staff"". I believe they decided to do this because there are many types of employees in such a big company, and sometimes company decision and action can be madde in vertical structure, so the committers and leaders might have to listen to their foundation staff (they call them the "Staff").

### Go Project VS Sugar Labs

The major difference between the Go Project and Sugar Labs is that Sugar Labs decided to focus a lot more on the company values ("be respectful", "be collaborative", etc) than the Go Project. I like how they focused on the values, but I slightly feel that they could make an improvement by adding the company's responsibilities and how they approach team conflicts when the teammates cannot resolve them, because I think those two are the most important parts of the Code of conduct document.

Yet they're also quite similar in a few ways. First of all, they both focused on discussing their values. Secondly, they have an introduction paragraphs, which I love a lot.

I noticed that Sugar Lab's Code of Conduct document was written based on Ubuntu Code of Conduct. I also read Ubuntu Code of Conduct, and it seems like Ubuntu has a lot more details in their document than Sugar Labs. I guess Sugar Labs decided to make their document more simple and concentrated, and I like it!

# Code of conduct of the company I like

I found Spotify's code of conduct document : http://q4live.s22.clientfiles.s3-website-us-east-1.amazonaws.com/540910603/files/doc_downloads/govDocs/Code-of-Conduct-FINAL-(2018)-GABS.pdf

Spotify's code of conduct document is a lot longer and have more details than the "templates" above. It talks about not only conflict resolutions but also prevention other possible events such as "Anti-Human Trafficking" and "Gifts and Entertainment". It's amazing how they thought about a lot of possible scenarios, it's very detailed!

First I decided to compare Spotify's Code of conduct to the one of the Go Project. Unlike the Go Project, Spotify focused less on the company values, but more on events that could happen both in between two people and in group. And by doing that, Spotify indirectly expressed their company values. For example, when they talked about "Insider Trading", Spotify expressed that "transparency is a huge part of" who they are. 

Secondly, I compared Spotify and Sugar Labs. Just like Go Project, Sugar Labs focused more on the company values, whereas Spotify focused more on possible cases of misconduct. I personally like Spotify's code of conduct document better because I think it is more useful for real-world experience. When I read other templates, I just thought "I should be respectful and kind to other members". But Spotify gave me an insight of how actually misconductive behavior can happen in daily life and how it can be prevented or solved. 

The Code of Conduct "templates" I have read before Spotify all had similar general structure of the document, such as "Our Pledge", "Our Standards" and then "Our responsibilities", etc. Yet Spotify doesn't follow that rule; they made their own template and focused on expressing what members are not allowed to do.

By doing this comparison I learned that many companies have different structure of Code of Conduct and it shows what the company focuses on and cares about.


