---
layout: post
title: Week 1 - Introduction to Open Source
---

# Open Source? 

On the first week of the class, I was able to learn about what Open Source really is and how Open Source projects have been around me in everyday life. 
Before the lecture, I simply thought Open Source means when a project makes itself public so that everyone can see and utilize it. 
For example, when I create a program, I thought implementing Java or C libraries is an example of using an open source.
But I learned it was a lot more than that; by making a project (and also anything other than project) an open source, everyone who finds and understands the project can contribute to it, and therefore the project can be developed and improved in much faster and diverse way. Furthermore, just making its source code available doesn't mean that the project is open source; there must be a valid license that meets certain requirements, and when it does, the project can be finally considered open source.
Although there are some potential negative side of Open Source, I believe it's wonderful; it's absolutely amazing to imagine how everyone in different parts of the world can work on one project together and share ideas. 

# Open Source vs Closed Source

There are certainly many advantages of making a project open source. First, since everyone can contribute to the project, we will be able to collect significantly diverse viewpoints about the project, which will be a huge benefit to have an insight about the project that we couldn't think of if we worked on the project alone. I believe this is the most significant of advantage of open source project; we all have different ideas about things around us and there must be people that have great ideas that we couldn't think of at that moment. Secondly, open source project can reduce time and energy by significant means compared to closed source when it comes to creating a new project. By referring to the code from open source projects, the base of new projects can be done in a fraction of time.

Then why don't all people make their projects open source? It's because there are some potential problems with open source and there are some advantages of closed source projects. As an opposite of an open source, closed source refers to the projects that don't make their source code public or puts restriction on the public source code in terms of distribution and ownership. A closed source can be beneficial when the owner of the project wants to keep it for themselves and don't want other people to see and use their code. Therefore a closed source can have an advantage when the owner wants to earn profit from their project. Another advantage of closed source can be that since only the original members of the project will be able to work on it, there will be a lot less conflict and disturbance when implementing new features and such. The potential problems with open source are the reason why people sometimes prefer closed source over open source; because everyone is a contributor of the project and it's mostly not possible to do a meeting with all the contributors over the world, it could be very chaotic when deciding which new features should be approved and which should be implemented for public/customer use. Another problem is that we can't make sure that every contributor of the project is validated and is therefore safe; there might be someone (especially possibly from a competing company) who desires to intentionally damage the project.

Although there are certianly some possible problems with open source, it's undeniable that open source has a significant advantage that the society as a whole can benefit from.

# Why this class?

Although I didn't have much idea about what Open Source was, I was definitely aware that it's one of the central methods of software engineering in the modern day.
Although other topics such as machine learning and data management are also very interesting, I wanted to learn the most about something that could give me an insight 
about how real world software engineering works and how a team works together on a project. Although there were some group projects in my previous computer science classes,
I don't exactly feel like those experience gave me a significant opportunity to prepare for real world teamwork. I believe this class will give me that exact opportunity, 
especially because the class will mostly be based on team projects and also I will have an opportunity to work on open source projects, which are basically worldwide teamwork projects.

# Some open source projects that I use(d) frequently

* __Visual Studio Code__
  - As a computer science major, I would say Visual Studio Code is the most frequently used software for me for the last 3 years. Visual Studio Code helped me a lot in my academic career; it helps me with catching bugs in my program, fixing indentation and spelling issues, and it makes it extremely easy to test and run the program.

* __Java and Python__
  - This week I learned that the programming languages themselves are also open source. These programming languages I learned throughout my academic career at NYU are openly provided to everyone (including me) and I could use them to make my own program. It's amazing!

* __Wikipedia__
  - Wikipedia is a great open source website where everyone can add and edit information about a certain topic. Whenever I don't know about something, I google it up and Wikipedia teaches me everything about it. Wikipedia, I believe, is a good example that shows both the advantages and disadvantages of open source; since everyone can contribute to the website, Wikipedia tends to have a LOT of information with significant details about the keyword/topic. Yet a disadvantage could be that since everyone can contribute, there could be potentially wrong information. 

* __Spotify__
  - If Visual Studio Code is the most frequently used software for academic purpose, Spotify is the most frequently used software for everyday life for me. I listen to music every time of the day and I use Spotify to play them. I didn't know Spotify was open source until this week. It's amazing to know how things that I've been using everyday are actually open source and I can see the code of them!

___________________________________________________________________

I'm very excited to learn more about open source software and to start my own open source project!
